<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en-US" lang="en-US"><head><title>Pricing Strategy</title><meta charset="utf-8" /></head><body><section epub:type="chapter"><div class="page"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page34" title="35"></span><h1 id="ch3" class="chaptitle"><span class="span3">3</span> <span class="span4">&#x00A0;KEY TERMS</span></h1><p class="keyterm"><b>breakeven analysis</b>&#x00A0;                    <span id="kt1" epub:type="footnote">An analysis to determine the sales volume required to cover fixed and variable costs fully. Profit at the breakeven sales volume is zero.</span></p><p class="keyterm"><b>business-to-business (B2B)</b>&#x00A0;                    <span id="kt2" epub:type="footnote">A financial transaction, such as a sale, that takes place between businesses, such as between a manufacturer and wholesaler or between a wholesaler and a retailer.</span></p><p class="keyterm"><b>business-to-consumer (B2C)</b>&#x00A0;                    <span id="kt3" epub:type="footnote">A financial transaction, such as a sale, that takes place between a company and consumers who are the end users of a product.</span></p><p class="keyterm"><b>cost-oriented pricing</b>&#x00A0;                    <span id="kt4" epub:type="footnote">An approach to pricing in which the posted price is based on the cost of producing a product, plus some additional margin for the firm to realize a return. In the simplest version, called cost-plus pricing, a firm typically adds a percentage to the costs of production to arrive at the posted price.</span></p><p class="keyterm"><b>demand curve</b>&#x00A0;                    <span id="kt5" epub:type="footnote">In economics, a graphic representation of the relationship between product price and the quantity of the product demanded. It is drawn with price on the vertical axis of the graph and quantity demanded on the horizontal axis.</span></p><p class="keyterm"><b>dynamic pricing</b>&#x00A0;                    <span id="kt6" epub:type="footnote">An approach to pricing in which the posted price varies according to the current level of market demand.</span></p><p class="keyterm"><b>experience good</b>&#x00A0;                    <span id="kt7" epub:type="footnote">A product or service in which product characteristics, such as quality or price, are difficult to observe in advance, but can be ascertained upon consumption. Philip Nelson originated this concept.</span></p><p class="keyterm"><b>marginal math</b>&#x00A0;                    <span id="kt8" epub:type="footnote">A conceptual tool used to assess the change in unit sales required to maintain profitability in light of a change in product price (which in turn changes the unit margin).</span></p><p class="keyterm"><b>price experimentation</b>&#x00A0;                    <span id="kt9" epub:type="footnote">The purposeful setting of price at varying levels across time, across geographic regions, and/or across channels to assess consumer response to the various prices.</span></p><p class="keyterm"><b>price sensitivity</b>&#x00A0;                    <span id="kt10" epub:type="footnote">The degree to which an individual&#x2019;s willingness to purchase changes with a change in price.</span></p><p class="keyterm"><b>search good</b>&#x00A0;                    <span id="kt11" epub:type="footnote">A product or service with features and characteristics easily evaluated before purchase. Search goods are more subject to substitution and price competition than experience goods. Philip Nelson originated this concept.</span></p><p class="keyterm"><b>value-based pricing</b>&#x00A0;                    <span id="kt12" epub:type="footnote">An approach to pricing in which the posted price is based on the value of a product as perceived by the customer.</span></p><p class="keyterm"><b>yield-management system</b>&#x00A0;                    <span id="kt13" epub:type="footnote">An approach to pricing in which the posted price is based on the expected demand for a given product by various customers. Typically applied to a perishable product, such as an airline seat or a hotel room, prices are adjusted by customer type, by the timing of the purchase, and/or by the date and time the product will be used.</span></p></div></section></body></html>