<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en-US" lang="en-US"><head><title>Pricing Strategy</title><meta charset="utf-8" /></head><body><section epub:type="chapter"><div class="page">    <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page36" title="37"></span><h1 id="ch5" class="chaptitle"><span class="span3">5</span> <span class="span4">&#x00A0;ENDNOTES</span></h1><p class="hang"><a href="ch01.xhtml#chn1">1</a> <span id="fnt1" epub:type="footnote">Michael V. Marn and Robert L. Rosiello, &#x201C;Managing Price, Gaining Profit,&#x201D; <i>Harvard Business Review</i> 70 (September/October 1992): 84&#x2013;94.</span></p><p class="hang"><a href="ch01.xhtml#chn2">2</a> <span id="fnt2" epub:type="footnote">These numbers are calculated using each firm&#x2019;s 2013 annual reports. E. I. DuPont de Nemours and Company, Annual Report 2013, <span class="break-all">http://www.dupont.com/annual-report/2013/home.html,</span> accessed April 24, 2014; Nike, Inc., 2013 Annual Report, <span class="break-all">http://investors.nikeinc.com/files/doc_financials/AnnualReports/2013/,</span> accessed April 24, 2014; The Boeing Company, 2013 Annual Report, <span class="break-all">https://materials.proxyvote.com/Approved/097023/20140227/AR_195723/#/1/,</span> accessed April 24, 2014; Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., 2013 Annual Report, <span class="break-all">http://stock.walmart.com/microsites/annual-report-2013/ourPerformance.aspx,</span> accessed April 24, 2014.</span></p><p class="hang"><a href="ch01.xhtml#chn3">3</a> <span id="fnt3" epub:type="footnote">Elliot B. Ross, &#x201C;Making Money with Proactive Pricing,&#x201D; <i>Harvard Business Review</i> 62 (November/December 1984): 145&#x2013;155.</span></p><p class="hang"><a href="ch01.xhtml#chn4">4</a> <span id="fnt4" epub:type="footnote">Robert J. Dolan and Hermann Simon, <i>Power Pricing: How Managing Price Transforms the Bottom Line</i> (New York: The Free Press, 1996), pp. 324, 335&#x2013;336.</span></p><p class="hang"><a href="ch01.xhtml#chn5">5</a> <span id="fnt5" epub:type="footnote">Stephan M. Liozu and Andreas Hinterhuber, &#x201C;Industrial Product Pricing: A Value-Based Approach,&#x201D; <i>Journal of Business Strategy</i> 33 (2012): 28&#x2013;39.</span></p><p class="hang"><a href="ch01.xhtml#chn6">6</a> <span id="fnt6" epub:type="footnote">Thomas T. Nagle, John E. Hogan, and Joseph Zale, <i>The Strategy and Tactics of Pricing: A Guide to Growing More Profitably</i>, 5th ed. (Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2011), p. 14, emphasis ours.</span></p><p class="hang"><a href="ch01.xhtml#chn7">7</a> <span id="fnt7" epub:type="footnote">Robert J. Dolan and Hermann Simon, <i>Power Pricing: How Managing Price Transforms the Bottom Line</i> (New York: The Free Press, 1996), pp. 46&#x2013;47.</span></p><p class="hang"><a href="ch02.xhtml#chn8">8</a> <span id="fnt8" epub:type="footnote">This section has been adapted from &#x201C;Principles of Pricing,&#x201D; HBS No. 506-021 by Robert J. Dolan and John T. Gourville. Copyright &#x00A9; 2005 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College; all rights reserved.</span></p><p class="hang"><a href="ch02.xhtml#chn9">9</a> <span id="fnt9" epub:type="footnote">John T. Gourville, &#x201C;The Medicines Company,&#x201D; HBS No. 502-006 (Boston: Harvard Business School, 2001).</span></p><p class="hang1"><a href="ch02.xhtml#chn10">10</a> <span id="fnt10" epub:type="footnote">Robert J. Dolan and Uma R. Karmarkar, &#x201C;Catalina in the Digital Age,&#x201D; HBS No. 514-021 (Boston: Harvard Business School, 2013).</span></p></div><div class="page"><p class="hang1"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page37" title="38"></span><a href="ch02.xhtml#chn11">11</a> <span id="fnt11" epub:type="footnote">Jennifer Valentino-DeVries, Jeremy Singer-Vine, and Ashkan Soltani, &#x201C;Websites Vary Prices, Deals Based on Users&#x2019; Information,&#x201D; <i>Wall Street Journal</i>, December 24, 2012.</span></p><p class="hang1"><a href="ch02.xhtml#chn12">12</a> <span id="fnt12" epub:type="footnote">FileMaker, Inc., &#x201C;FileMaker Store,&#x201D;<span class="break-all">https://store.filemaker.com/US/ENG/RTL/product/purchase/,</span> accessed March 7, 2014.</span></p><p class="hang1"><a href="ch02.xhtml#chn13">13</a> <span id="fnt13" epub:type="footnote">FileMaker, Inc., &#x201C;FileMaker Licensing,&#x201D; <span class="break-all">http://www.filemaker.com/purchase/resellers/docs/fm_licensing_datasheet.pdf,</span> accessed April 21, 2014.</span></p><p class="hang1"><a href="ch02.xhtml#chn14">14</a> <span id="fnt14" epub:type="footnote">Robert J. Dolan and Hermann Simon, <i>Power Pricing: How Managing Price Transforms the Bottom Line</i> (New York: The Free Press, 1996), pp. 179&#x2013;183.</span></p><p class="hang1"><a href="ch02.xhtml#chn15">15</a> <span id="fnt15" epub:type="footnote">This section has been adapted from &#x201C;Principles of Pricing,&#x201D; HBS No. 506-021 by Robert J. Dolan and John T. Gourville. Copyright &#x00A9; 2005 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College; all rights reserved.</span></p><p class="hang1"><a href="ch02.xhtml#chn16">16</a> <span id="fnt16" epub:type="footnote">John T. Gourville, &#x201C;Note on Behavioral Pricing,&#x201D; HBS No. 599-114 (Boston: Harvard Business School, 1999).</span></p><p class="hang1"><a href="ch02.xhtml#chn17">17</a> <span id="fnt17" epub:type="footnote">GOG.com, &#x201C;New Pricing Experiment,&#x201D; <span class="break-all">http://www.gog.com/news/new_pricing_experiment,</span> accessed April 5, 2014.</span></p><p class="hang1"><a href="ch02.xhtml#chn18">18</a> <span id="fnt18" epub:type="footnote">Much of the discussion on elasticity is adapted and reprinted from &#x201C;Marketing Analysis Toolkit: Pricing and Profitability Analysis,&#x201D; HBS No. 511-028 by Thomas Steenburgh and Jill Avery. Copyright &#x00A9; 2010 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College; all rights reserved.</span></p><p class="hang1"><a href="ch02.xhtml#chn19">19</a> <span id="fnt19" epub:type="footnote">This scenario has been adapted from &#x201C;Pricing: Design and Implementation,&#x201D; HBS No. 500-020 by Samuel Chun. Copyright &#x00A9; 1999 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College; all rights reserved.</span></p><p class="hang1"><a href="ch02.xhtml#chn20">20</a> <span id="fnt20" epub:type="footnote">For a more in-depth treatment of marginal math, see Stephen J. Hoch, Xavier Dr&#x00E8;ze, and Mary. E. Purk, &#x201C;EDLP, Hi-Lo, and Margin Arithmetic,&#x201D; <i>Journal of Marketing</i> 58 (October 1994): 16&#x2013;27.</span></p></div><div class="page">    <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page38" title="39"></span><div id="footnotes-heading"><span class="span4">FOOTNOTES</span></div><p class="hang"><a href="#ftnref1">a</a> <span id="ftn1" epub:type="footnote">Throughout this reading, the term <i>product</i> will refer both to physical goods and to services.</span></p><p class="hang"><a href="#ftnref2">b</a> <span id="ftn2" epub:type="footnote">PV sometimes falls above TEV. For instance, in the short run, a buyer may have an incorrect perception of performance and perceive greater value in a product than is actually present.</span></p><p class="hang"><a href="#ftnref3">c</a> <span id="ftn3" epub:type="footnote">A demand curve can also be developed at the industry level, which captures how overall demand varies at different industry-level price points, or at the firm level, which captures how demand for that firm&#x2019;s products varies at different firm-level price points, with all other firms holding prices stable.</span></p><p class="hang"><a href="#ftnref4">d</a> <span id="ftn4" epub:type="footnote">When it comes to percentage margins, it is important not to confuse margin with markup. Percentage margin is always communicated and calculated as unit margin divided by selling price. In our example, $15/$40=0.375, meaning that 37.5% of the selling price is margin. Markup refers to the unit margin relative to the unit variable cost, or $15/$25 =0.60. In other words, the price of the clock has been marked up 60% relative to its unit variable cost.</span></p><p class="hang"><a href="#ftnref5">e</a> <span id="ftn5" epub:type="footnote">The iso-profit curve can be considered a special case of marginal math.</span></p></div></section></body></html>